Chapter 1: The Boy Who Lived

"To Harry Potter - The Boy Who Lived! "
—People meeting in secret all over the country to offer a toast to Harry

Vernon and Petunia Dursley, with their one-year-old son Dudley, are proud to say that they are the most normal people possible. They happily occupy 4 Privet Drive, located in the Surrey County town of Little Whinging. Vernon is the director of a drill company called Grunnings, while Petunia does housework and looks after Dudley, yet she always spends so much time craning over garden fence to spy on the neighbours. Despite all this, the Dursley family are the least people anyone expects to be involved in anything funny or disturbing, for they don't hold with such nonsense in their daily lives. The story begins on a Tuesday 1 November, 1981, where many absurd things happen. When all three Dursleys are gossiping happily at breakfast trying to wrestle Dudley in his high chair, none of them even notice a large tawny owl flutter pass their window. It eventually comes to Vernon's attention when he is heading to work shortly afterwards, and sees a silver tabby cat reading a map and later a street sign. He attempts to convince himself that these are merely coincidences. Next, he sees people in cloaks talking in hushed voices, and while he is sitting in his office, a flock of owls fly past his window. On his break, Vernon goes to a bakery to get a bun and sees another group of extravagantly-cloaked figures. Even though they are speaking in hushed voices, he eavesdrops on some of their conversation, which includes a mention of "the Potters and their son Harry." Vernon finds this horrifying, because the Potters are the family of Petunia's sister Lily. He and Petunia will be embarrassed if people find out that they are related to them, as the Potter family are very strange, in their opinion. When he leaves his workplace at the end of the day, he bumps into a very small, cloaked man, who tells him that someone named "You-Know-Who" has been defeated, and that even Muggles like Vernon should be celebrating. Vernon doesn't know what a Muggle is, but is offended that the man called him one.

That night, when Vernon arrives at home, he turns on the news and becomes suspicious when the newsman states that owls have been seen everywhere earlier in the day, and that fireworks have been spotted in Kent. Vernon asks Petunia if she and her sister have been in touch, but she becomes angry and denies it as she does not like to talk about her. When the Dursleys go to bed, a long bearded old man in a purple cloak appears out of nowhere outside of their home. The man, Albus Dumbledore, syphons all of the light from the street lamps with his Deluminator, then meets with the cat that Vernon had seen earlier that morning, who transforms into a whisky old woman named Minerva McGonagall. They quietly speak about the deaths of James and Lily Potter at the hands of someone called "Voldemort" at the Potter cottage in the West Country village of Godric's Hollow, and how their son Harry has miraculously survived the attack. A few moments later, a motorbike with a gigantic man, Rubeus Hagrid, riding it lands right in front of them, carrying baby Harry. He hands him over to Dumbledore, who leaves the sleeping baby and a letter to the Dursleys on the doorstep of 4 Privet Drive. Hagrid himself leaves to bring the motorbike back to its actual owner, but not before giving Harry a kiss goodbye on the scarred forehead (which burns his lips). McGonagall reverts back into the cat and slinks around the corner at the other end of the street, but Dumbledore stays to unsyphon the the light from the street lamps and bid Harry farewell before vanishing without a trace. Harry rolls over inside his bundle of blankets with his small hand closing on the letter as he sleeps on, not knowing he is special and famous, nor that he will be woken up the next morning by his Aunt Petunia's scream when she opens the front door to put out the milk bottles, nor that he will be spending the next few weeks being prodded and pinch by his cousin Dudley. And he will never know that at this very moment, people meeting in secret all over the country are holding up glasses and saying in hushed voices: "To Harry Potter -- the boy who lived!"
